Documentation/02_Complex_Module_Functions/01_General_Control_Module.md, before:

(Note: This document is currently incomplete)
# **I/O:**

## **Inputs:**

|Name|Bits wide|Description|
|:---|:---|:---:|
|```clk```|1-bit|Clock Signal|
|```rstn```|1-bit|Reset Signal|
|```ins```|32-bits|The Next 4-Byte Long Instruction|

## **Outputs:**

|Name|Bits wide|Description|
|:---|:---|:---:|
|```pc_en```|1-bit|Enables or disables program counter updating|
|```immode```|3-bits|Controls how the immediate value is constructed from the instruction|
|```wbe```|1-bit|Enables or disables writing to the destination register|
|```branch_occr```|2-bits|Specifies if instruction is guaranteed to branch, guaranteed to not branch, or could do either|
|```addr_mode```|1-bit|Specifies how the memory address to potentially branch to is calculated|
|```a_sel```|1-bit|Selects what input is used as the primary input to the ALU|
|```b_sel```|2-bit|Selects what input is used as the secondary input to the ALU|
|```alu_mode```|6-bits|Controls the operating mode of the ALU|
|```branch_cond```|2-bits|Specifies what condition must be satisfied for a branch to occur|
|```data_mode```|2-bits|Specifies the size of the data being stored in memory|
|```dcache_rw```|1-bit|Controls if the data cache is in read or write mode|
|```dcache_en```|1-bit|Enables the data cache to be read from or written to|
|```wbs```|3-bits|Specifies what data to store in the destination register|

### **Output Options:**

#### **IF Stage:**
  - **pc_en**
    - 0: pc stays the same
    - 1: pc = npc
  - **immode**
    - 0: imm = 32'b0
    - 1: imm = {20{ins[31]}}, ins[31:20]}
    - 2: imm = {20{ins[31]}}, ins[31: 25], ins[11:7]}
    - 3: imm = {19{ins[31]}}, ins[31], ins[7], ins[30:25], ins[11:8], 0}
    - 4: imm = {ins[31:12], 12b'0}
    - 5: imm = {11'b0, ins[31], ins[19:12], ins[20], ins[30:21], 0}
#### **ID Stage:**
  - **addr_mode**
    - 0: branch_addr = pc + imm
    - 1: branch_addr = imm + rs1d
  - **branch_occr**
    - 0: non-branching instruction
    - 1: always-branching instruction
    - 2: branch-condition instruction
  - **a_sel**
    - 0: a = rs1d
    - 1: a = pc
    - 3: a = 0
  - **b_sel**
    - 0: b = rs2d_in
    - 1: b = imm
    - 2: b = 4
    - 3: b = imm << 12
#### **EX Stage:**
  - **alu_mode**
    - 0x00: Addition
    - 0x01: Logical Left Shift
    - 0x02; Signed Set on Less Than
    - 0x03: Unsigned Set on Less Than
    - 0x04: Bitwise XOR
    - 0x05: Logical Right Shift
    - 0x06: Bitwise OR
    - 0x07: Bitwise AND
    - 0x20: Subtraction
    - 0x25: Arithmetic Right Shift
  - **branch_cond**
    - 0: branch_taken = 0 (non-branching instructions)
    - 1: branch_taken = |alu_out (rs1d < rs2d, rs1d != rs2d)
    - 2: branch_taken = ~|alu_out (rs1d >= rs2d, rs1d = rs2d)
    - 3: branch_taken = 1 (jal, jalr)
#### **MEM Stage:**
  - **data_mode**
    - 0: Store Byte (M[addr][7:0] = data[7:0])
    - 1: Store Half (M[addr][15:0] = data[15:0])
    - 2: Store Word (M[addr][31:0] = data[31:0])
  - **dcache_rw**
    - 0: Read
    - 1: Write
  - **dcache_en**
    - 0: Disabled
    - 1: Enabled
#### **WB Stage:**
  - **wbs**
    - 0: rdd = sign extend mrd[7:0]
    - 1: rdd = sign extend mrd[15:0]
    - 2: rdd = mrd
    - 3: rdd = alu_out
    - 4: rdd = mrd[7:0]
    - 5: rdd = mrd[15:0]
  - **wbe**
    - 0: don't update register[rdn]
    - 1: register[rdn] = rdd

# **Functionality:**

## **Registers:**
  - 32-bit ```IF_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```ID_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```EX_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```MEM_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```WB_ins``` register
## **Combinational Logic Signals:**
  - 1-bit ```Hazard```

## **Instruction Type Decoding:**

#### R Type (ins[6:0] = 0110011):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 0
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 0
    - a_sel = 0
    - b_sel = 0
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = ins[31:25] + ins[14:12]
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 3
    - wbe = 1
#### I Type 1 (ins[6:0] = 0010011):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 1
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 0
    - a_sel = 0
    - b_sel = 1
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode:
       - If ins[14:12] = 0x5:
         - alu_mode = ins[31:25] + ins[14:12] 
       - Else:
         - alu_mode = ins[14:12] 
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 3
    - wbe = 1
#### I Type 2 (ins[6:0] = 0000011):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 1
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 0
    - a_sel = N/A
    - b_sel = N/A
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = N/A
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = 0
    - dcache_en = 1
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = ins[14:12]
    - wbe = 1
#### I Type 3 (ins[6:0] = 1100111):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 1
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = 1
    - branch_occr = 1
    - a_sel = 1
    - b_sel = 2
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 0
    - branch_cond = 3
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 3
    - wbe = 1
#### S Type (ins[6:0] = 0100011):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 2
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = 1
    - branch_occr = 0
    - a_sel = N/A
    - b_sel = N/A
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = N/A
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = ins[14:12] 
    - dcache_rw = 1
    - dcache_en = 1
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = N/A
    - wbe = 0
#### B Type (ins[6:0] = 1100011):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 3
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 2
    - a_sel = 0
    - b_sel = 0
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode:
      - If ins[14:12] = 0, 1
        - alu_mode = 0x20
      - If ins[14:12] = 4, 5
        - alu_mode = 0x02
      - If ins[14:12] = 6, 7
        - alu_mode = 0x03
    - branch_cond:
      - If ins[14:12] = 1, 4, 6
        - branch_cond = 1
      - If ins[14:12] = 0, 5, 7
        - branch_cond = 2 
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = N/A
    - wbe = 0
#### U Type (ins[6:0] = 0110111, 0010111):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 4
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 0
    - a_sel = ins[5:4]
    - b_sel = 3
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 0
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 3
    - wbe = 1
#### J Type (ins[6:0] = 1101111):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 5
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 1
    - a_sel = 1
    - b_sel = 2
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 0
    - branch_cond = 3
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 3
    - wbe = 1
#### NOP (ins[6:0] = 0000000, 0001111, 1110011):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 0
    - immode = 0
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 0
    - a_sel = 0
    - b_sel = 0
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 0
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = N/A
    - wbe = 0
      
## **Hazard Detection:**

### Hazard Description:
When the IF_ins instruction poses a read-write, write-read, or write-write hazard we need to stall that instruction until the instruction it depends on exits the pipeline.  A similar rule needs to be applied for branching hazards, since we could potentially load an errant instruction into the IF stage. As such, we use combinational logic to check if the instruction in the IF_ins register is a branching instruction or otherwise dependent on any instruction currently in the other stages of the pipeline; if there is a branching instruction or dependency, the hazard signal is set and we insert a NOP to stall execution, otherwise, we continue as normal with the hazard signal not set. This hazard detection logic must be combinational and not rely on the clock cycle so that we can entirely and instantly prevent the pipeline from advancing to the next instruction for as long as the hazard is present.

### Hazard Detection Logic:

### Hazard Dependent Outputs and Registers:
  - Hazard = 0:
    - ID_ins = IF_ins
    - pc_en = 1
  - Hazard = 1:
    - ID_ins = NOP (32'b0)
    - pc_en = 0

Commit message:

docs(01_General_Control_Module.md): Added list of instructions that can pose hazards

Documentation/02_Complex_Module_Functions/01_General_Control_Module.md, after:

(Note: This document is currently incomplete)
# **I/O:**

## **Inputs:**

|Name|Bits wide|Description|
|:---|:---|:---:|
|```clk```|1-bit|Clock Signal|
|```rstn```|1-bit|Reset Signal|
|```ins```|32-bits|The Next 4-Byte Long Instruction|

## **Outputs:**

|Name|Bits wide|Description|
|:---|:---|:---:|
|```pc_en```|1-bit|Enables or disables program counter updating|
|```immode```|3-bits|Controls how the immediate value is constructed from the instruction|
|```wbe```|1-bit|Enables or disables writing to the destination register|
|```branch_occr```|2-bits|Specifies if instruction is guaranteed to branch, guaranteed to not branch, or could do either|
|```addr_mode```|1-bit|Specifies how the memory address to potentially branch to is calculated|
|```a_sel```|1-bit|Selects what input is used as the primary input to the ALU|
|```b_sel```|2-bit|Selects what input is used as the secondary input to the ALU|
|```alu_mode```|6-bits|Controls the operating mode of the ALU|
|```branch_cond```|2-bits|Specifies what condition must be satisfied for a branch to occur|
|```data_mode```|2-bits|Specifies the size of the data being stored in memory|
|```dcache_rw```|1-bit|Controls if the data cache is in read or write mode|
|```dcache_en```|1-bit|Enables the data cache to be read from or written to|
|```wbs```|3-bits|Specifies what data to store in the destination register|

### **Output Options:**

#### **IF Stage:**
  - **pc_en**
    - 0: pc stays the same
    - 1: pc = npc
  - **immode**
    - 0: imm = 32'b0
    - 1: imm = {20{ins[31]}}, ins[31:20]}
    - 2: imm = {20{ins[31]}}, ins[31: 25], ins[11:7]}
    - 3: imm = {19{ins[31]}}, ins[31], ins[7], ins[30:25], ins[11:8], 0}
    - 4: imm = {ins[31:12], 12b'0}
    - 5: imm = {11'b0, ins[31], ins[19:12], ins[20], ins[30:21], 0}
#### **ID Stage:**
  - **addr_mode**
    - 0: branch_addr = pc + imm
    - 1: branch_addr = imm + rs1d
  - **branch_occr**
    - 0: non-branching instruction
    - 1: always-branching instruction
    - 2: branch-condition instruction
  - **a_sel**
    - 0: a = rs1d
    - 1: a = pc
    - 3: a = 0
  - **b_sel**
    - 0: b = rs2d_in
    - 1: b = imm
    - 2: b = 4
    - 3: b = imm << 12
#### **EX Stage:**
  - **alu_mode**
    - 0x00: Addition
    - 0x01: Logical Left Shift
    - 0x02; Signed Set on Less Than
    - 0x03: Unsigned Set on Less Than
    - 0x04: Bitwise XOR
    - 0x05: Logical Right Shift
    - 0x06: Bitwise OR
    - 0x07: Bitwise AND
    - 0x20: Subtraction
    - 0x25: Arithmetic Right Shift
  - **branch_cond**
    - 0: branch_taken = 0 (non-branching instructions)
    - 1: branch_taken = |alu_out (rs1d < rs2d, rs1d != rs2d)
    - 2: branch_taken = ~|alu_out (rs1d >= rs2d, rs1d = rs2d)
    - 3: branch_taken = 1 (jal, jalr)
#### **MEM Stage:**
  - **data_mode**
    - 0: Store Byte (M[addr][7:0] = data[7:0])
    - 1: Store Half (M[addr][15:0] = data[15:0])
    - 2: Store Word (M[addr][31:0] = data[31:0])
  - **dcache_rw**
    - 0: Read
    - 1: Write
  - **dcache_en**
    - 0: Disabled
    - 1: Enabled
#### **WB Stage:**
  - **wbs**
    - 0: rdd = sign extend mrd[7:0]
    - 1: rdd = sign extend mrd[15:0]
    - 2: rdd = mrd
    - 3: rdd = alu_out
    - 4: rdd = mrd[7:0]
    - 5: rdd = mrd[15:0]
  - **wbe**
    - 0: don't update register[rdn]
    - 1: register[rdn] = rdd

# **Functionality:**

## **Registers:**
  - 32-bit ```IF_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```ID_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```EX_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```MEM_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```WB_ins``` register
## **Combinational Logic Signals:**
  - 1-bit ```Hazard```

## **Instruction Type Decoding:**

#### R Type (ins[6:0] = 0110011):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 0
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 0
    - a_sel = 0
    - b_sel = 0
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = ins[31:25] + ins[14:12]
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 3
    - wbe = 1
#### I Type 1 (ins[6:0] = 0010011):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 1
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 0
    - a_sel = 0
    - b_sel = 1
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode:
       - If ins[14:12] = 0x5:
         - alu_mode = ins[31:25] + ins[14:12] 
       - Else:
         - alu_mode = ins[14:12] 
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 3
    - wbe = 1
#### I Type 2 (ins[6:0] = 0000011):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 1
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 0
    - a_sel = N/A
    - b_sel = N/A
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = N/A
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = 0
    - dcache_en = 1
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = ins[14:12]
    - wbe = 1
#### I Type 3 (ins[6:0] = 1100111):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 1
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = 1
    - branch_occr = 1
    - a_sel = 1
    - b_sel = 2
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 0
    - branch_cond = 3
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 3
    - wbe = 1
#### S Type (ins[6:0] = 0100011):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 2
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = 1
    - branch_occr = 0
    - a_sel = N/A
    - b_sel = N/A
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = N/A
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = ins[14:12] 
    - dcache_rw = 1
    - dcache_en = 1
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = N/A
    - wbe = 0
#### B Type (ins[6:0] = 1100011):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 3
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 2
    - a_sel = 0
    - b_sel = 0
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode:
      - If ins[14:12] = 0, 1
        - alu_mode = 0x20
      - If ins[14:12] = 4, 5
        - alu_mode = 0x02
      - If ins[14:12] = 6, 7
        - alu_mode = 0x03
    - branch_cond:
      - If ins[14:12] = 1, 4, 6
        - branch_cond = 1
      - If ins[14:12] = 0, 5, 7
        - branch_cond = 2 
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = N/A
    - wbe = 0
#### U Type (ins[6:0] = 0110111, 0010111):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 4
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 0
    - a_sel = ins[5:4]
    - b_sel = 3
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 0
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 3
    - wbe = 1
#### J Type (ins[6:0] = 1101111):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 1
    - immode = 5
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 1
    - a_sel = 1
    - b_sel = 2
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 0
    - branch_cond = 3
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 3
    - wbe = 1
#### NOP (ins[6:0] = 0000000, 0001111, 1110011):
  - IF Stage:
    - pc_en = 0
    - immode = 0
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - branch_occr = 0
    - a_sel = 0
    - b_sel = 0
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 0
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = N/A
    - wbe = 0
      
## **Hazard Detection:**

### Hazard Description:
When the IF_ins instruction poses a read-write, write-read, or write-write hazard we need to stall that instruction until the instruction it depends on exits the pipeline.  A similar rule needs to be applied for branching hazards, since we could potentially load an errant instruction into the IF stage. As such, we use combinational logic to check if the instruction in the IF_ins register is a branching instruction or otherwise dependent on any instruction currently in the other stages of the pipeline; if there is a branching instruction or dependency, the hazard signal is set and we insert a NOP to stall execution, otherwise, we continue as normal with the hazard signal not set. This hazard detection logic must be combinational and not rely on the clock cycle so that we can entirely and instantly prevent the pipeline from advancing to the next instruction for as long as the hazard is present.

### Instructions That Can Pose Hazards:

#### Hazards Related to CPU Registers
- All R Type Instructions: They all read and write to CPU registers
- All I Type 1 Instructions: They all read and write to CPU registers
- All I Type 2 Instructions: They all read and write to CPU registers
- All I Type 3 Instructions: They all read and write to CPU registers
- All S Type Instructions: They all read from CPU registers
- All B Type Instructions: They all read from CPU registers
- All U Type Instructions: They all write to CPU registers
- All J Type Instructions: They all write to CPU registers

#### Hazards Related to Memory
- All I Type 2 Instructions: They all read from memory
- All S Type Instructions: They all write to memory

#### Branching Hazards
- All I Type 3 Instructions: They can all branch
- All B Type Instructions: They can all branch
- All J Type Instructions: They can all branch

### Hazard Detection Logic:

### Hazard Dependent Outputs and Registers:
  - Hazard = 0:
    - ID_ins = IF_ins
    - pc_en = 1
  - Hazard = 1:
    - ID_ins = NOP (32'b0)
    - pc_en = 0
