Documentation/Complex-Module-Functions/General-Control-Module.md, before:

(Note: This document is currently incomplete)
# **I/O:**

## **Inputs:**

|Name|Bits wide|Description|
|:---|:---|:---:|
|```clk```|1-bit|Clock Signal|
|```rstn```|1-bit|Reset Signal|
|```ins_in```|32-bits|The Next 4-Byte Long Instruction|
|```flush```|1-bit|Signal that Pipeline is being flushed|
|```p_state```|#-bits|Input from Processor State Module|

## **Outputs:**

|Name|Bits wide|Description|
|:---|:---|:---:|
|```ins```|32-bits|Instruction output to IF/ID Latch|
|```pc_en```|1-bit|Enables or disables program counter updating|
|```immode```|3-bits|Controls how the immediate value is constructed from the instruction|
|```wbe```|1-bit|Enables or disables writing to the destination register|
|```addr_mode```|1-bit|Specifies how the memory address to potentially branch to is calculated|
|```a_sel```|1-bit|Selects what input is used as the primary input to the ALU|
|```b_sel```|2-bit|Selects what input is used as the secondary input to the ALU|
|```alu_mode```|6-bits|Controls the operating mode of the ALU|
|```branch_cond```|2-bits|Specifies what condition must be satisfied for a branch to occur|
|```data_mode```|2-bits|Specifies the size of the data being stored in memory|
|```dcache_rw```|1-bit|Controls if the data cache is in read or write mode|
|```dcache_en```|1-bit|Enables the data cache to be read from or written to|
|```wbs```|3-bits|Specifies what data to store in the destination register|

### **Output Options:**

#### **IF Stage:**
  - **pc_en**
    - 0: pc stays the same
    - 1: pc = npc
  - **immode**
    - 0: imm = 32'b0
    - 1: imm = {20{ins[31]}}, ins[31:20]}
    - 2: imm = {20{ins[31]}}, ins[31: 25], ins[11:7]}
    - 3: imm = {19{ins[31]}}, ins[31], ins[7], ins[30:25], ins[11:8], 0}
    - 4: imm = {ins[31:12], 12b'0}
    - 5: imm = {11'b0, ins[31], ins[19:12], ins[20], ins[30:21], 0}
#### **ID Stage:**
  - **addr_mode**
    - 0: branch_addr = pc + imm
    - 1: branch_addr = imm + rs1d
  - **a_sel**
    - 0: a = rs1d
    - 1: a = pc
    - 3: a = 0
  - **b_sel**
    - 0: b = rs2d_in
    - 1: b = imm
    - 2: b = 4
    - 3: b = imm << 12
#### **EX Stage:**
  - **alu_mode**
    - 0x00: Addition
    - 0x01: Logical Left Shift
    - 0x02; Signed Set on Less Than
    - 0x03: Unsigned Set on Less Than
    - 0x04: Bitwise XOR
    - 0x05: Logical Right Shift
    - 0x06: Bitwise OR
    - 0x07: Bitwise AND
    - 0x20: Subtraction
    - 0x25: Arithmetic Right Shift
  - **branch_cond**
    - 0: branch_taken = 0 (non-branching instructions)
    - 1: branch_taken = |alu_out (rs1d < rs2d, rs1d != rs2d)
    - 2: branch_taken = ~|alu_out (rs1d >= rs2d, rs1d = rs2d)
    - 3: branch_taken = 1 (jal, jalr)
#### **MEM Stage:**
  - **data_mode**
    - 0: Store Byte (M[addr][7:0] = data[7:0])
    - 1: Store Half (M[addr][15:0] = data[15:0])
    - 2: Store Word (M[addr][31:0] = data[31:0])
  - **dcache_rw**
   - 0: Read
   - 1: Write
  - **dcache_en**
    - 0: Disabled
    - 1: Enabled
#### **WB Stage:**
  - **wbs**
    - 0: rdd = alu_out
    - 1: rdd = sign extend mrd[7:0]
    - 2: rdd = sign extend mrd[15:0]
    - 3: rdd = mrd[7:0]
    - 4: rdd = mrd[15:0]
    - 5: rdd = mrd
  - **wbe**
    - 0: don't update register[rdn]
    - 1: register[rdn] = rdd

# **Functionality:**

## **Registers:**
  - 32-bit ```IF_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```ID_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```EX_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```MEM_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```WB_ins``` register
  - 1-bit ```Hazard``` register

## **Instruction Type Decoding:**

#### R Type (ins[6:0] = 0110011):
  - IF Stage:
    - immode = 0
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - a_sel = 0
    - b_sel = 0
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = ins[31:25] + ins[14:12]
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 0
    - wbe = 1
#### I Type (ins[6:0] = 0010011, 0000011, 1100111, 1110011):
  - IF Stage:
    - immode = 1
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = 
    - a_sel = 
    - b_sel = 
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 
    - branch_cond = 
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode =
    - dcache_rw = 
    - dcache_en = 
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs =
    - wbe = 
#### S Type (ins[6:0] = 0100011):
  - IF Stage:
    - immode = 2
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = 1
    - a_sel = N/A
    - b_sel = N/A
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = N/A
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = ins[14:12] 
    - dcache_rw = 1
    - dcache_en = 1
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = N/A
    - wbe = 0
#### B Type (ins[6:0] = 1100011):
  - IF Stage:
    - immode = 3
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - a_sel = 0
    - b_sel = 0
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode:
      - If ins[14:12] = 0, 1
        - alu_mode = 0x20
      - If ins[14:12] = 4, 5
        - alu_mode = 0x02
      - If ins[14:12] = 6, 7
        - alu_mode = 0x03
    - branch_cond:
      - If ins[14:12] = 1, 4, 6
        - branch_cond = 1
      - If ins[14:12] = 0, 5, 7
        - branch_cond = 2 
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = N/A
    - wbe = 0
#### U Type (ins[6:0] = 0110111, 0010111):
  - IF Stage:
    - immode = 4
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - a_sel = ins[5:4]
    - b_sel = 3
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 0
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 0
    - wbe = 1
#### J Type (ins[6:0] = 1101111):
  - IF Stage:
    - immode = 5
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - a_sel = 1
    - b_sel = 2
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 0
    - branch_cond = 1
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 0
    - wbe = 1

## **Hazard Detection:**

### Setting the Hazard Register:
  

### Hazard Dependent Outputs and Registers:
  - Hazard = 0:
    - ID_ins = IF_ins
    - pc_en = 1
  - Hazard = 1:
    - ID_ins = NOP (32'b00000000000000000000000000110011)
    - pc_en = 0

Commit message:

docs(General-Control-Module.md): Added more hazard detection information

Documentation/Complex-Module-Functions/General-Control-Module.md, after:

(Note: This document is currently incomplete)
# **I/O:**

## **Inputs:**

|Name|Bits wide|Description|
|:---|:---|:---:|
|```clk```|1-bit|Clock Signal|
|```rstn```|1-bit|Reset Signal|
|```ins_in```|32-bits|The Next 4-Byte Long Instruction|
|```flush```|1-bit|Signal that Pipeline is being flushed|
|```p_state```|#-bits|Input from Processor State Module|

## **Outputs:**

|Name|Bits wide|Description|
|:---|:---|:---:|
|```ins```|32-bits|Instruction output to IF/ID Latch|
|```pc_en```|1-bit|Enables or disables program counter updating|
|```immode```|3-bits|Controls how the immediate value is constructed from the instruction|
|```wbe```|1-bit|Enables or disables writing to the destination register|
|```addr_mode```|1-bit|Specifies how the memory address to potentially branch to is calculated|
|```a_sel```|1-bit|Selects what input is used as the primary input to the ALU|
|```b_sel```|2-bit|Selects what input is used as the secondary input to the ALU|
|```alu_mode```|6-bits|Controls the operating mode of the ALU|
|```branch_cond```|2-bits|Specifies what condition must be satisfied for a branch to occur|
|```data_mode```|2-bits|Specifies the size of the data being stored in memory|
|```dcache_rw```|1-bit|Controls if the data cache is in read or write mode|
|```dcache_en```|1-bit|Enables the data cache to be read from or written to|
|```wbs```|3-bits|Specifies what data to store in the destination register|

### **Output Options:**

#### **IF Stage:**
  - **pc_en**
    - 0: pc stays the same
    - 1: pc = npc
  - **immode**
    - 0: imm = 32'b0
    - 1: imm = {20{ins[31]}}, ins[31:20]}
    - 2: imm = {20{ins[31]}}, ins[31: 25], ins[11:7]}
    - 3: imm = {19{ins[31]}}, ins[31], ins[7], ins[30:25], ins[11:8], 0}
    - 4: imm = {ins[31:12], 12b'0}
    - 5: imm = {11'b0, ins[31], ins[19:12], ins[20], ins[30:21], 0}
#### **ID Stage:**
  - **addr_mode**
    - 0: branch_addr = pc + imm
    - 1: branch_addr = imm + rs1d
  - **a_sel**
    - 0: a = rs1d
    - 1: a = pc
    - 3: a = 0
  - **b_sel**
    - 0: b = rs2d_in
    - 1: b = imm
    - 2: b = 4
    - 3: b = imm << 12
#### **EX Stage:**
  - **alu_mode**
    - 0x00: Addition
    - 0x01: Logical Left Shift
    - 0x02; Signed Set on Less Than
    - 0x03: Unsigned Set on Less Than
    - 0x04: Bitwise XOR
    - 0x05: Logical Right Shift
    - 0x06: Bitwise OR
    - 0x07: Bitwise AND
    - 0x20: Subtraction
    - 0x25: Arithmetic Right Shift
  - **branch_cond**
    - 0: branch_taken = 0 (non-branching instructions)
    - 1: branch_taken = |alu_out (rs1d < rs2d, rs1d != rs2d)
    - 2: branch_taken = ~|alu_out (rs1d >= rs2d, rs1d = rs2d)
    - 3: branch_taken = 1 (jal, jalr)
#### **MEM Stage:**
  - **data_mode**
    - 0: Store Byte (M[addr][7:0] = data[7:0])
    - 1: Store Half (M[addr][15:0] = data[15:0])
    - 2: Store Word (M[addr][31:0] = data[31:0])
  - **dcache_rw**
   - 0: Read
   - 1: Write
  - **dcache_en**
    - 0: Disabled
    - 1: Enabled
#### **WB Stage:**
  - **wbs**
    - 0: rdd = alu_out
    - 1: rdd = sign extend mrd[7:0]
    - 2: rdd = sign extend mrd[15:0]
    - 3: rdd = mrd[7:0]
    - 4: rdd = mrd[15:0]
    - 5: rdd = mrd
  - **wbe**
    - 0: don't update register[rdn]
    - 1: register[rdn] = rdd

# **Functionality:**

## **Registers:**
  - 32-bit ```IF_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```ID_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```EX_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```MEM_ins``` register
  - 32-bit ```WB_ins``` register
## **Combinational Logic Signals:**
  - 1-bit ```Hazard```

## **Instruction Type Decoding:**

#### R Type (ins[6:0] = 0110011):
  - IF Stage:
    - immode = 0
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - a_sel = 0
    - b_sel = 0
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = ins[31:25] + ins[14:12]
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 0
    - wbe = 1
#### I Type (ins[6:0] = 0010011, 0000011, 1100111, 1110011):
  - IF Stage:
    - immode = 1
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = 
    - a_sel = 
    - b_sel = 
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 
    - branch_cond = 
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode =
    - dcache_rw = 
    - dcache_en = 
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs =
    - wbe = 
#### S Type (ins[6:0] = 0100011):
  - IF Stage:
    - immode = 2
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = 1
    - a_sel = N/A
    - b_sel = N/A
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = N/A
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = ins[14:12] 
    - dcache_rw = 1
    - dcache_en = 1
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = N/A
    - wbe = 0
#### B Type (ins[6:0] = 1100011):
  - IF Stage:
    - immode = 3
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - a_sel = 0
    - b_sel = 0
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode:
      - If ins[14:12] = 0, 1
        - alu_mode = 0x20
      - If ins[14:12] = 4, 5
        - alu_mode = 0x02
      - If ins[14:12] = 6, 7
        - alu_mode = 0x03
    - branch_cond:
      - If ins[14:12] = 1, 4, 6
        - branch_cond = 1
      - If ins[14:12] = 0, 5, 7
        - branch_cond = 2 
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = N/A
    - wbe = 0
#### U Type (ins[6:0] = 0110111, 0010111):
  - IF Stage:
    - immode = 4
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - a_sel = ins[5:4]
    - b_sel = 3
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 0
    - branch_cond = 0
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 0
    - wbe = 1
#### J Type (ins[6:0] = 1101111):
  - IF Stage:
    - immode = 5
  - ID Stage:
    - addr_mode = N/A
    - a_sel = 1
    - b_sel = 2
  - EX Stage:
    - alu_mode = 0
    - branch_cond = 1
  - MEM Stage:
    - data_mode = N/A
    - dcache_rw = N/A
    - dcache_en = 0
  - WB Stage:
    - wbs = 0
    - wbe = 1

## **Hazard Detection:**

### Setting the Hazard Register:
  - Description: When the ins_in instruction poses a read-write, write-read, or write-write hazard we need to stall that instruction until the instruction it depends on exits the pipeline. As such, we use combinational logic to check if the instruction in the IF_ins register is dependent on any instruction currently in the other stages of the pipeline; if there is a dependency, the hazard signal is set and we insert NOPs to stall execution, otherwise, we continue as normal. This hazard detection logic must be combinational and not rely on the clock cycle so that we can entirely and instantly prevent the pipeline from advancing to the next instruction for as long as the hazard is present.
### Hazard Dependent Outputs and Registers:
  - Hazard = 0:
    - ins = ins_in
    - IF_ins = ins_in
    - pc_en = 1
  - Hazard = 1:
    - ins = NOP (32'b00000000000000000000000000110011)
    - IF_ins = NOP (32'b00000000000000000000000000110011)
    - pc_en = 0
